Mike's Automagic DVD Ripper Script
==================================

Overview
--------

This python script uses lsdvd and HandBrakeCLI to automate the process
of ripping DVDs. Without any options it will scan the DVD for the
longest video track ("title" in DVD language) and rip it at full
resolution using h264 and include all of the audio and subtitle tracks.
The output will be a mkv file, with the filename derived from the title
of the DVD which comes from the DVD's metadata. Since the title provided
is only useful half the time at best the script asks for confirmation.

The default audio track is the first English track found. If a different
language is preferred (you don't want a crappy English dub on a foreign
film) change the preferred language with --alang. When the default
language is not English the first English subtitle track is enabled by
default. The preferred subtitle language can be changed with --slang.
Note that currently audio is "downmixed" to Dolby Pro Logic II and
re-encoded (HandBrake's default). Since many DVDs include several
surround formats the current situation winds up with several nearly
identical audio tracks. In the future I may figure out a good way to
guess which tracks are duplicates and which are legitimately different
such as an unlabeled commentary track.

At the end of the rip the file gets run through mkvmerge to make sure
the default tracks are selected properly and adds metadata tags with the
title. (Not many apps actually use mkv metadata but it makes me feel
better about myself.)


Requirements:
-------------

- lsdvd
- HandBrakeCLI (http://handbrake.fr/)
- mkvinfo/mkvmerge (mkvtoolnix)

Note that the last release of HandBrake doesn't have packages available
for recent distributions but svn snapshot builds are provided and work
just fine as of this writing.

On Ubuntu::
    add-apt-repository ppa:stebbins/handbrake-snapshots
    apt-get update
    apt-get install handbrake-cli lsdvd mkvtoolnix


Known Issues/To Do
------------------

- Sometimes lsdvd and HandBrake disagree on the number of audio tracks.
  Recent versions of HandBrakeCLI have a --scan option which could be
  useful for replacing most or all of lsdvd's use, I'll do it some day.
  As a work around specify the correct audio tracks with -A.

- HandBrake has a feature to scan the DVD for subtitles that should be
  enabled by default for brief foreign language segments. However so far
  I have only found one DVD that had a track the scan enabled and even
  then it didn't seem to do the right thing. The code is still there but
  disabled. Are there DVDs that this feature actually works for?

- In reality a lot of what this script does should actually be in
  HandBrakeCLI instead. Again, I'll do it some day.

- Duplicate audio tracks should be removed. The others should be
  identified in mkv's metadata. Many but not all DVDs are good about
  tagging which audio tracks are Director's Commentary.


Usage
-----

Go full automagic::

    rip

Set the title::

    rip --title "This awesome movie"

Choose only a few chapters::

    rip --chapters 1-5

Switch default audio to French (--slang en is the default so English
subtitles will turn on)::

    rip --alang fr

Choose your own audio and subtitle tracks::

    rip --audio 1,4 --subtitles 1,2
